## Vector

### Dot Product

A cross B = |A||B|cos(θ)<br>
```c++
int dot(int[] A, int[] B, int[] C) {
  AB = new int[2];
  BC = new int[2];
  AB[0] = B[0] - A[0];
  AB[1] = B[1] - A[1];
  BC[0] = C[0] - B[0];
  BC[1] = C[1] - B[1];
  int dot = AB[0] * BC[0] + AB[1] * BC[1];
  return dot;
}
```

### Cross Product
A dot B = |A||B|sin(θ)<br>

### Line-Point Distance

You are given A, B, C you have to find the distance from C to Line AB.

distance = (A cross B) / |AB| 

`Tricky`

AB is not infinity it is a line segment.Nearest point can be in 3 case

1. Endpoint A.
2. Endpoint B.
3. Somewhere between AB.

if AB.BC > 0 then nearest point is B.<br>
if BA.AC > 0 then nearest point is B.<br>
if both dot product is < 0 then somewhere between AB.<br>

### Line-Line Intersection
If line is in form pf Ax+By = C. Then from points (x1, y1) and (x2, y2)
```
A = y2-y1
B = x2-x1
C = Ax1+By1
```
```c++
double det = A1 * B2 - A2 * B1
if (det == 0) {
  //Lines are parallel
} else {
  double x = (B2 * C1 - B1 * C2) / det
  double y = (A1 * C2 - A2 * C1) / det
}
```

`Circumradious of a triangle`

R = (abc) / (4 * area)

`Excircle radious of a triangle (oposite to A)`

Ra = (area of triangle) / (s - a)

Ra = (r * s) / (s - a)

Here,<br>
s = semi-perimeter, r = inradius


`Point Location Relative to Line`

Given points: 
```math 
p_1 = (x_1, y_1), p_2 = (x_2, y_2) , p_3 = (x_3, y_3)   
```

Use the formula:

```math
\text{val} = (x_2 - x_1)(y_3 - y_1) - (y_2 - y_1)(x_3 - x_1)
```

Interpretation:
1. If val > 0 ---> p3 is **left** side of the line p1 to p2
2. If val <> 0 ---> p3 is **right** side of the line p1 to p2
3. If val = 0 ---> p3 is **on the line** p1 to p2


`Pythagorean triples generated by m,n`

All the primitive Pythagorean triangles are each generated once if and only if one of m,n pair is odd and the other is even.
This is often described as m and n have opposite parity.
Since all the sides of the triangle are positive then we also need m>n.
The triples are **m^2 - n^2, 2*mn, m^2 + n^2**

3,4,5 and 5,12,13 are primitive Pythagorean triples
but 6,8,10 and 333,444,555 and 50,120,130 are not.

The 2mn value is one of the sides and the only even side in 9, 12, 15 is 12, so 12 = 2 m n.

Hence m n = 6. But m > n, 
so we can only have two cases:

m = 6 with n = 1 OR

m = 3 and n = 2

The first case gives the triple 35, 12, 37 and the second case gives 5, 12, 13, neither of which is the 9, 12, 15 triple.

There are two values which generate 9, 12, 15 and they are m = 2√2, n=√2.

In fact there are always m,n values for all PTs but they are not always integers:
If m,n generates a, b, h then g×a, g×b, g×h is generated by √g m, √g n.

`Fibonacci method to generate Pythagorean triple`

Use fibonacci type of series 4 numbers: 1, 3, 4, 7 <br>
1st Leg:  Multiply the middle two numbers and double the result.<br>
a = 2 * (3 * 4) = 24

2nd Leg: Multiply the two outer numbers<br>
b = 1 * 7 = 7

Hypotenuse: EITHER add the squares of the middle two numbers 3 * 3 + 4 * 4 = 25.<br>
OR from the product of the last two subtract the product of the first two:4×7 – 1×3 = 25 <br>
for both c = 25.

You can start with any two numbers and use the Fibonacci Rule: add the latest two to get the next to generate two more. The four numbers will always generate a Pythagorean Triangle